# Kleoverse

Created: May 16, 2022 10:37 AM
Finished: No
Source: https://kleoverse.com/daos
Tags: #tool

[Rally is a platform for creators and their communities to build their own independent digital economies around social tokens issued on the Ethereum blockchain and Rally.io sidechain. Social tokens enable transactions, access, and more creative solutions for your proprietary economy.](https://kleoverse.com/profile?page=dao&slug=rally)

[Tokn Music is the stock market of the music industry. We enable artists to earn more streams of revenue & passive income by selling shares of their streaming royalties to fans and investors. These artists build a deeper connections to their fans, keep 100% of they copyrights, and aren't trapped into an agreement they can't back out of, while their investors own, exchange, and capitalize off of their song royalties from places like Spotify, Apple Music, and TikTok. We are creating an ecosystem that opens up the doors for artists to get funding directly from their fans rather than joining a record label and selling upwards of 85% of their career.](https://kleoverse.com/profile?page=dao&slug=tokn_music)

[⚡Stack3 is a decentralized platform and a collective of web3 and no code experts that's transforming how startups operate and coordinate their activities⚡ 
We envision a future where startups coordinate their activities such as fundraising, product building and hiring through a web3 ecosystem that provides entrepreneurs an access to decentralized networks and collective intelligence.](https://kleoverse.com/profile?page=dao&slug=stack3)

[PandaDAO seeks to reduce the control centralized organizations have over information, and instead put personal data into the hands of the people. We also aim to produce tools for DAOs, allowing more individuals to work full-time for this new type of organization. PandaDAO is more than just a decentralized media organization. We are developing new decentralized data systems and liberating internet products and human resources from Web2.](https://kleoverse.com/profile?page=dao&slug=pandadao)