# Tabnine

Created: May 7, 2022 11:08 AM
Finished: No
Source: https://www.tabnine.com/
Tags: #tool

[Tabnine%209a42694600c946a0a7fe295c20cdaba2/image](Tabnine%209a42694600c946a0a7fe295c20cdaba2/image)

Tabnine accelerates development by providing code guidance 
with patterns learned from millions of repositories and your projects

Tabnine automates repetitive work and reduces the need for expensive and distracting code search. Tabnine can write 30% or even more of the code for you. Let Tabnine take care of the tedious work and free up time for the creative work!

Share knowledge effortlessly across countries and time zones. Tabnine learns your code patterns and serves as a virtual expert available to every member of your team at any hour of the day.

Tabnine Improves code quality and consistency across your project, suggesting code completions that align with your code patterns. With project-wide consistent code, your projects are easier to read, manage, and maintain.

Speed new team members through the onboarding process while minimizing the training burden placed on senior developers. Tabnine for Teams automatically suggests code completions that align with your team’s standards and best practices.

Use AI assistance to get the right code the first time. Tabnine provides code guidance that’s correct and consistent with your patterns and style, saving costly and frustrating code review iterations.

Connect your repositories, and Tabnine's AI assistant will start learning your specific code patterns! Tabnine equips your team with a custom-trained AI model that provides guidance aligned with your code standards and best practices.

From the most popular languages like JavaScript, Python, and TypeScript to more niche languages like Rust, Go, and Bash, Tabnine covers them all.

At Tabnine, we know privacy is paramount. Tabnine's AI code completion models can be run locally on your machine, and NEVER share your code.

Tabnine's private Team models can be configured to store all your AI training data locally on your machines, helping ensure compliance while providing you and your team with complete control and custody of your data. Need a self-hosting solution? Contact us to learn about Tabnine for Enterprise